Why do you want to travel to Antarctica and what excites you about this expedition?

During my last few months at uni this year (exam season in full swing), a lot of my time was spent going on long walks. Invariably, these walks would take me past a small lake where a large community of geese aggregated. Among them were three families of goslings, who I watched grow up from newly hatched to almost fledged, which I've chronicled here: https://www.instagram.com/billybart96/.

Every day with these geese gave me more apprecation for them and how they acted together, growing into a love of birds as a whole. Coming home, I've been paying attention to the birds around my area ten times as much as before, at one time caring for an injured pigeon. Birds and the ecosystems they live in have been at the front of my mind more than ever before. Research from past decades indicates humans have impacted ecosystems across all continents of the earth. Antarctica, and their bird species, are the most isolated of them all, and only recently have we started to pay attention to the waste making its way past 60 degrees south. 

Having recently graduated from a challenging course in maths and without a clear plan for my future, most of my summer has been spent learning new things and thinking about where I could go. When I received the email for the Antarctic sabbatical last week, my mind jumped to the birds I love and it was an instant decision. We have the potential to make a better world, and I want to use the experience from my time at university to help. While I'd love to see a penguin colony or the other birds living around the coast, it's probably not going to happen. But knowing that the work we would do could protect them from human impact would be rewarding on its own!

To support my application, I've been doing a couple of things. First, I've been using what I've learned about programming over summer to start prototyping a small game where you play as a penguin sliding between research stations across the Antarctic, collecting as many ice cores as possible along the way. My hope is that once our expedition is over and we have data from the ice, I can replicate our journey across the Antarctic with our ice cores (taking some creative liberties, of course!).

Second, I've been using my access to journals to find previous research on human impact in the Antarctic. From this, I've learned about microplastics in cosmetics, waste in the sea around research stations, and how macroplastics degrade into microplastics. Interestingly, everything I've found about the impact on land has been in the intertidal region. Could we be the first to learn about plastic in the interior? I've also learned a little about the the organizations involved in this sabbatical, Ocean Conservancy and the British Antarctic Survey (and Boaty McBoatface) being the biggest focus.

I've put both the penguin game and the information I've learned here: https://github.com/Testyal/Antarctica - check them out if you can! It's very likely I'll update this to reflect what I learn over the next few weeks, since this is the most motivated and excited I've been about an opportunity for a long time, besides the motivation I had for the goslings, of course!